---
index: 1
section: technical
title: Quick Tour
class: TE IT
author: Shivam Yadav
endpoint: /quick-tour
---

GIT , one of the most important parts of the recently hyped domain name ‘Devops’.
Learning GIT is a great decision and it will definitely improve you as a programmer and make you more sound in handling files and maintaining them but first let’s understand why do we need GIT and what does a GIT actually do?

So we all are familiar with File System and how files are usually handled and what are backup options, etc. But there’s a huge disadvantage of relying too much on our traditional file systems as it doesn’t give us the credibility of updating our files with versions. With version I mean the different variations of a file wherein let’s say you saved a word file, now you do a small edit and once you save it the state will be automatically transferred to the updated one and you lose your previous state. Also sometimes there might be situations of system crashes, or any other abnormalities then file system tend to lose the data. Apart from this, Git is really handy if you are working on a project with your mates and you have to manage code files regularly as per every teammate’s version of code files.

So for these reasons, the Git came into picture to provide us different states or so called versions of our file so that if in future there’s a need we can roll back to any of our previous commit states and by also giving a remote backup place where our files will be stored safely. (Github, BitBucket, or any other remote platforms)

### Basic Flow of a GIT

I will try to show you how you can simply push (store) one of the code file on your local computer to a remote repository on GitHub.

Don’t worry about some jargons I have used, just follow the steps below and your doubts will be cleared hopefully.

Let’s say you have a file called helloworld.py anywhere on your pc and you want to now create a backup on GitHub.

1.  Install git from the official website of git:
    [https://git-scm.com/downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
2.  Once you are done with that, go to the directory where you have file.
3.  Go to github.com and simply login and make your own repository as private or public depending upon your requirement. If you need to make it open source then leave it ‘public’ otherwise make it ‘private’. (Repository – File Location)
4.  Now, you will be getting a remote url link once you create your repository. Keep this link with you.
5.  Now go to a local directory where you need to have your local copy of remote repository you just created. This process is called “Cloning Repository”. It is like having a cloned bcr or gcr locker room at your house. Cloning helps you to edit your files kept remotely on GitHub without actually visiting github just by editing at your local computer. (In simple terms)
6.  Right click inside your local file directory and open git bash and type following command.

```
git clone <URL which you got on step 4>
```

7. After this you will be able to view a file named same as your remote repository which you created in step3. Now just go inside that file and add your helloworld.py in it and open gitbash there. (Right click and open it)
8. Now follow the below mentioned commands one by one.

- git status
- git add helloworld.py
- git status
- git commit -m (any message you want to have about the file and its update)
- git status
- git push origin master

### Note:

You will notice git status thrice above , don’t worry you can type it or not. It’s upto you, it’s optional but yes it’s a good practice to check status of your file as you apply various commands.
And every git status above will inform you about the journey of your file from staging area to the remote repo as shown in the diagram above.

And now if you visit your remote repository at github.com you will notice a file named helloworld.py added to your empty repo.

Now next time, let’s say if you add a function helloguys() in your file helloworld.py, then once you save it you need to follow each command in step 8. Then you will be ready to code more and more without being haunted by backups and versions anymore.

For more detailed and in depth tour of git visit my github repo, [https://github.com/Shivuu1300/Git-Quick-Tour-Series](https://github.com/Shivuu1300/Git-Quick-Tour-Series)

Happy Coding : )
