---
index: 3
section: technical
title: Is AI the next revolution in mankind?
class: SE IT
author: Gaurav Shetty
endpoint: /is-ai-the-next-revolution-in-mankind
---

Artificial intelligence (AI) is a unique innovation. It is different in the sense that, it has the ability to think, reason and solve a problem. Imagine a person working 24/7 on a topic, he would eventually become an expert on that thing. Now we know that no human can do that, but what if we build a machine which can keep learning and give output like a human would. This would allow humans for better and fast understanding of a particular subject, thus increasing the rate of technological advancement.

Many AI researchers are still working on making AI which mimics the human brain. Currently the best AI system is not even as good as a brain of a toddler.

Artificial intelligence is not just the next big wave in computing but the next major turning point in human history. As stated by AI oracle and venture capitalist Dr. Kai-Fu Lee, "AI is going to change the world more than anything in the history of mankind, even more than electricity."

Artificial intelligence is used almost everywhere today, in systems such as mail spam filtering, credit card fraud detection, virtual assistance, recommendation system which gives the best results for our searches based on our browsing history and so on. Many companies are now using AI for increasing their productivity. Other salient applications of AI are in prevention of wild life poaching, for smart agriculture, developing chatbots, in human resource management and even in cybersecurity.

I believe there is no end or limitation to the number of applications with Artificial Intelligence to make our lives better. In fact some AI systems are proving to be better than humans, for example ‘Deep Blue’ which is a chess playing computer developed by IBM is known for winning a chess match against a reigning world champion under regular time controls.

But what we majorly require is the use of Artificial Intelligence and technology to prevent human deaths, replacing humans in dangerous jobs like firefighting, mining and other careers with high mortality rate and even in rescue missions. Normally responders need to examine aerial footage to determine where people could be stranded. However, examining a vast number of photos and drone footage is time consuming and labor intensive. Such a time critical process might very well be the difference between life and death for the victims. Thus by using AI, we can reduce search times drastically.

Even in medical science, Artificial Intelligence can play a vital role in performing clinical diagnoses and suggesting treatment. AI has the capability of detecting meaningful relationships in a data set and has been widely used in many clinical situations to diagnose, treat and predict the results. A scientist named Carl Djerassi wrote Artificial Intelligence program called DENDRAL, which could automatically discover unknown form of medications.

Amongst all the good things from which AI can offer us, there are some negative impacts of Artificial Intelligence like AI-enabled terrorism, social manipulation and AI bias, surveillance of the public, DeepFakes, etc. But the biggest threat is the long-term problem introducing something that is super intelligent and taking over human being to become more dominant species on the planet.

In January 2015, Elon Musk and a group of Artificial Intelligence experts signed an open letter on AI, calling for research on the societal impacts and urging researchers not to create something which cannot be controlled.

Ultimately, I think that Artificial Intelligence is impacting the future of virtually every industry and every human being. Artificial Intelligence has acted as the principal factor of emerging technologies like big data, robotics and IoT and it will continue to act as a technological innovator for the foreseeable future.
