---
index: 4
section: technical
title: A.I. and COVID-19
class: TE Comps
author: Sherwyn D’souza
endpoint: /ai-and-covid-19
---

The last few months have dragged with lockdown and quarantine. COVID-19 has become one of the deadliest pandemics one could ever have witnessed. During these past months sitting at home wondering what day it is, I came across many interesting and unique projects in the field of Machine Learning, Deep Learning and Computer Vision that could help in either stop the spread of this deadly virus or help us keep track of the current situation and narrow down on the major problems.

**There are 3 main projects I want to talk about in this article that I really found interesting:**

1. COVID-Net by Linda Wangg:

As we know, Coronavirus typically affects the respiratory system (i.e the lungs), causing symptoms such as coughing and shortness of breath. Some people, including older adults, are at risk of severe illness from these viruses. Since the lung is the most susceptible organ to Coronavirus, it should be the one to be monitored first.

It is necessary to try to find any kind of abnormalities in the lung as soon as possible to help detect a case of COVID-19. This is done by screening the patients. Chest X-rays using ‘Chest Radiography’ technology is the key approach in the screening process. With the help of the Chest X-ray and AI we can help detect a case of Coronavirus.

Motivated by this technology and inspired by the open source efforts of the research community, this project was born. Presenting, COVID-Net, a Deep Convolutional Neural Network which is designed to detect abnormalities related COVID-19 in the Chest X-rays. In deep learning, a convolutional neural network refers to a class of deep neural networks that is most commonly applied to analyzing visual imagery. This project was made with an aim not only to gain a deeper insight about what all could be the critical factors in detecting Coronavirus symptoms from a chest x-ray but also to help clinics and hospitals in improving the screening process.

2. Predicting the Growth and Trend of COVID-19 Pandemic by Shreshth Tuli:

As the number of coronavirus cases has grown exponentially since the lockdown, an important factor comes into mind viz. Statistics. Statistics play a very important role when it comes in analysis and prediction of a situation based on the analysed data.

Machine Learning can be used in this case. Machine learning in short is considered as a subset of artificial intelligence dealing with the study of computer algorithms that improve automatically through experience. Machine Learning can be trained to analyse and figure out patterns and trends in a large amount of data which can be used for predicting the growth and trend of a certain situation.

Considering the COVID-19 situation, this project was created to find such patterns and trends in the statistical data. This project by Shreshth Tuli, does this job with great accuracy and finesse. With the help of a web app and interactive graphs, it makes understanding of the COVID-19 trend much better. This study applies an improved mathematical model to analyse and predict the growth of the epidemic. The project shows that a better fit can be obtained to develop a prediction framework by using iterative weighting for fitting Generalized Inverse Weibull distribution,

For more accurate and real-time prediction of the growth behavior of the epidemic, this has been deployed on a cloud computing platform. This project helps us gain a better intuition about the COVID-19 pandemic and how it is affecting the world as a whole.

3. Mask or No Mask by Chandrika Deb:

The 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic is an ongoing pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). A mask is very important to fight the coronavirus. When an infected person coughs, they can send showers of tiny droplets – known as aerosols – filled with the virus into the air. This can be easily prevented with the help of ‘Masks’.

As the coronavirus cases are slowly reducing, it has resulted in a number of countries undergoing an ‘Unlock’. People are allowed to go outside for essential purposes. It is essential at all times to wear a mask while stepping out of the comfort of your home.

Mask or no mask is an important project which can help knowing if a person is following protocol or not. In the present scenario due to COVID-19, there are no efficient face mask detection applications which are now in high demand for transportation means, densely populated areas, residential districts, large-scale manufacturers and other enterprises to ensure safety.

Built using Open-CV and Convolutional Neural Networks, this project plays a very important role in ensuring protocol is met by the people. It simply checks whether a person is wearing a mask or not. People who wear a mask are tagged with a green box and those not wearing a mask are tagged with a red mask (i.e. indicating DANGER).

The use of the special entity “The Mask” is very important in the time of such a devastating pandemic. It helps in reducing the spread of this deadly disease.

So, this is it. Three amazing projects in the field of Machine Learning/ Deep Learning and Computer Vision that have pretty important use cases in the current pandemic. These projects show just how an innovative idea can be used in such serious times. I’d like to end by a quote - “Keep feeding your curiosity!”
