---
index: 5
section: technical
title: Real History of AI based Robots
class: FE B
author: Upamanyu Jha
endpoint: /real-history-of-ai-based-robots
---

The History of AI-based robots, it is vital to understand more about the history of robotics and the history of humanoid robots.

400BC was the starting point for the era of robotics when Mathematician Archytas created the first steam-powered mechanical bird. In its best run, it flew 200 meters before running out of steam. It was not only the first robot ever created, but it was also one of the first instances of scientific research into flying.

Leonardo da Vinci sketched a plan for the first recorded humanoid robot, known as Leonardo’s Robot, around 1495 which had the capabilities to stand, sit, raise its visor, and move its arms. Several pulleys and cables were behind the operation of the entire robot.

In 1913, Henry Ford successfully installed the world’s first conveyor-belt assembly line in his car factory. The motive behind it was to make his Model of ‘T car’ affordable for everyone. So to gain the benefits of economies of scale, he needed to build them more. Thus conveyor belt assembly line reduced the time from over 12 hours down to 93 minutes to make those cars.

The 1920s was the period when robots broke into mainstream media. The word “robot” was first coined in 1921 by Czech play-writer Karel Čapek in his play RUR (Rossum’s Universal Robots) the play was about a factory that makes artificial people, robots to be servants for humans.

The first year robots made to Hollywood was 1926. The first movie to own a geminoid robot was Metropolis. ‘Maschinenmensch’ became one of the most iconic robots for several years after the film.

Herbert Televox was first created by Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co in 1927, as the first ‘Humanoid’ robot. Televox’s creation started the developmental process leading to their later robots like Elektro, more accepted as the first created advanced humanoid robot.

A legendary science fiction writer Isacc Asimov released the quick story ‘Liar!’ in 1941 that outlines the three rules of robotics.

We still consider three rules of Asimovs the best safety restrictions that could program a robot to abide; the three requirements are:

1. A robot might not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow human nature to come to harm.
2. A robot must obey any orders given to it by the citizenry, except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.
3. A robot must protect its existence as far as protection doesn’t conflict with the First or Second Law.
   In 1952, Alan Turing developed the ‘Turing test’ in order to determine if a machine has the power to think for itself in a true manner. To pass a robot or computer must be indistinguishable from a human during a conversation.

In 1961, the general motors production line installed the first operated and programmable robot, the Unimate. The robot used to lift desirable pieces of metal from a die casting machine and stack them.

In 1967, Waseda University started the WABOT project. They completed WABOT-1 robot in 1972 and were the world’s first full-scale android humanoid robot. The first robot able to walk and communicate with people in Japanese, navigate an area and grip, and transport objects. They later created WABOT-2, which could read a musical score and playing an electrical keyboard.

George Lucas has released the first Star Wars movie in 1977, which became one of the highest-grossing movie franchises of all time. The film inspired a new generation of research by demonstrating a human future shared with robots like the now-famous R2-DT and C-3PO.

With one of the first instances of artificial intelligence, IBM created a computer known as deep blue in 1996. They designed the machine to play chess and on May 11th, 1997, it beat world chess champion, Garry Kasparov.

In 1997, Japan Held the first-ever Robocup tournament. RoboCup aimed to promote AI-based robot research by offering a publicly appealing but formidable challenge. The goal of the RoboCup is to have a fully automated team of robotics that can beat the world’s best football team by the year 2050.

In 2000, after over two decades of research on Honda debuts ASIMO, ASIMO had 11 robotic predecessors that were developing to research bipedal walking robots. The most advanced robot in the world was ASIMO upon its release, since then it is being continually developed and was the first robot capable of running, jumping, and using the stairs. We still see ASIMO as one of the most advanced robots in the world today.

Aldebaran Robotics released Nao in 2006, a 2-feet tall humanoid robot, which is being used worldwide by universities as a research platform and educational tool. Nao has become the face of social robotics. By replacing Sony’s Aibo robot dog, Nao has become the standard platform for the Robocup. Over 5000 of these robots are being used in over 50 unique countries and have programmed to do several things such as help in company receptions, care homes, and even help Autistic children.

NASA and General Motors revealed Robonaut-2 in 2010, a highly advanced dexterous humanoid robot that was part of the Discovery shuttle launch in 2011. Robonaut assisted NASA with spacewalks and has enough ability to use tools and work alongside astronauts in future space expeditions.

NASA later developed Valkyrie, a robot with the ability to set up habitats on Mars before human arrival ultimately.

Softbank Robotics released Pepper in 2014, which quickly became the world-leading commercially available social robot. They rolled pepper out in Softbank’s mobile stores in Japan and have since been using in Carrefour and Renault stores across France.

Hanson Robotics released the first-ever AI-based robot Sophia in 2016, a social robot with silicone skin, and the ability to interact with people and display over 50 facial expressions. The Sophia robot is also the first-ever robot that has the human-like appearance and behavior to gain citizenship of a country.

Thus we understood that robots are no longer concerned only for factory applications, but also used in a more complex and unstructured outside world, the automation of various human activities, like caring for the sick, driving a car, making love, and killing people. New robots, therefore, literally concerned automation from a desire to war. The military sector and also the car industry are reliable drivers behind the development of this unknown information technology. They have always been so. The car industry took the lead in introducing the industrial robot and with the robotization of cars. The military, especially in the U.S., stood at the forefront of artificial intelligence development, and now artificial intelligence is driving computers and the internet. More precisely, robotics makes use of the current ICT infrastructure and also implies a continued technological evolution of these networks. Through robotics, the internet has gained senses and hands and feet. The new robot is thus not usually an efficient system. To grasp the probabilities of modern robotics, therefore, it is essential to realize that robots are supporting a network of data technologies, such as the internet, and often presented as networked robots.

Long-term engineering ambitions drive new Robotics. First, there’s the engineering dream of building machines that will move and act autonomously in complex and unstructured environments. Second, there’s the dream of building machines capable of social behavior and has the capacity for moral deciding. I mention the notion that this might be technologically possible within a couple of years as a strong AI. Thus, the future of AI-base robots is an exciting prospect!
