---
index: 6
section: technical
title: Facial Recognition in Our Daily Lives
class: TE IT
author: Rohin Vaidya
endpoint: /facial-recognition-in-our-daily-lives
---

In modern times, security is a huge risk. With developments in technology as much as we believe that we are becoming secure, at the same rate, hackers are becoming smarter. Cracking someone’s password can be done with brute force or by something even as simple as knowing a few of the user’s personal details.

But with the recent advancements in technology, more unique forms of security can be achieved, for example, facial recognition, fingerprint identification and voice recognition. Although the aforementioned identifications are distinctive, they are not impossible to imitate and/or spoof.

In the present-day, facial recognition, fingerprint identification and voice recognition have found their way into the common man’s life through the aid of smartphones and similar technologies. Nowadays, you can just look at your phone or just tap the fingerprint scanner and it'll unlock.

Movies and TV shows like to portray how the authorities catch criminals using facial recognition, comparing millions of photos from thousands of sources.

Facial recognition is a technique that recognizes a human face through the assistance of technology. A facial recognition system uses biometrics or human specific characteristics to map facial features from digital media like photographs or videos. It compares the information with a catalogue of known faces to find the closest match.

This is something that our ancestors would have called "sorcery", and ask us how can we trust these computers? We can say that modern-day innovation is the past's magic.

Companies like Google, Apple and Samsung have invested a lot of time and effort into creating the present-day facial recognition in smartphones. But it is important to note that each of these companies has a different approach to how they identify the individual.

An approach that I found to be interesting was Apple's approach of using a technology termed as the TrueDepth camera system for their Face ID authentication. This TrueDepth camera system then captures accurate facial information by projecting and analysing numerous invisible dots to create a depth map (or 3D depiction) of your face while also capturing an infrared image of your face. This depth map is what sets Apple’s facial recognition software apart from many, if not all, its competitors.

The newer generations of iPhones have an advanced neural engine that is responsible for transforming the depth map and infrared image into a mathematical representation and compares that representation to the registered facial data.

Face ID will automatically detect and accommodate to changes in your appearance, such as wearing makeup, spectacles or growing facial hair. If there is a substantial or sudden variation in your appearance, like shaving off your beard, Face ID confirms your identity by using your chosen security pin before it updates your facial information stored in its memory. Face ID is designed to work with most accessories like hats, contact lenses, and certain sunglasses. Essentially, Face ID has been built to function in many diverse environments like indoors, outdoors, and even in total darkness.

Face ID matches against depth information, which isn't found in print or digital media. It's designed to protect against deceiving by masks or other techniques through the usage of elaborate anti-spoofing neural networks. Face ID is built to perceive whether the user is paying attention or in other words, it said to be "attention-aware". It is capable of discerning whether your eyes are open and your attention is focused towards the device. This makes it more rugged, while also prevents unauthorized access to your device without your prior knowledge and consent, such as when you are sleeping.

A major disadvantage of facial recognition is that it fails when too much of the face is covered, just how you may see criminals escape wearing a mask, sunglasses and baseball cap on the silver screen.
Many tech-enthusiasts use facial recognition in their home ecosystems with the support of Nest automation. Nest is a brand of Google used to endorse smart-home products including thermostats, smoke detectors, routers and security systems including smart doorbells, cameras and smart locks.

Even though so far all I have listed are the positive aspects of facial recognition like everything else in this world, it has its pros and cons. Facial recognition can help verify an individual’s identity, but it also comes with certain risks.

So, what are some of these risks that you should be aware of?

- Security: - As your face is something you always show to the world, it can be gathered and stored, anonymously without your consent. The data can then be accessed by hackers.
- Ownership: - In this digital world, although your face is yours alone, the same cannot be said about your pictures. Nowadays no one has got the time to read every Terms of Agreement and Privacy Policy. We just hit "I agree" to hasten the process and may inadvertently give up the ownership of whatever we upload on that website/app. And with the growth of accuracy of search engines, anyone can track down your data and even misuse it.
- Safety: - Facial recognition software is becoming more commonplace and hence if someone happens to take a picture of you in public and run it through the software, your identity may become compromised. This could escalate to harassment or stalking.
- Mistaken identity: - There is no system built by mankind that's perfect, consequently facial recognition software can make mistakes and the effects can lead to harm for a completely different person. What if the police arrest the wrong person based on solely the conclusion reached by this software?
- Basic freedoms: - If your facial data is collected by the Government and other agencies then they can easily track your every movement, making anonymity and privacy virtually impossible.
