---
index: 7
section: technical
title: Importance of Math in ML and DL
class: TE Comps
author: Jason D’Costa
endpoint: /importance-of-math-in-ml-and-dl
---

I’m sure many of you reading this article have heard about Machine Learning and Deep Learning. These topics have been plastered everywhere on the internet and you even see them creeping into your day to day life. In fact you’ll see them in your syllabus as well depending on which stream you have chosen. These topics are certainly important and the attention they get is well deserved. As many of you are aware their applications are widespread. So you’ve seen many people who are learning them for different reasons like employment, internships, higher education etc. Very few people learn these topics because they are really interested.

While doing your research about any topic in general you must have seen many blogs or websites online which have titles like “Implement a topic XYZ with library ABC in language MNO”. The premise of implementing something impressive in a short amount of time is really lucrative. It is human tendency to be lazy and get things done quickly. But you might be doing yourself a disservice in this manner. Training a Neural Network for example requires knowledge of hyper- parameters like learning rate, activation functions, gradient descent, etc. Rarely, you get good results without tweaking such parameters and their modification is impossible without knowing the impact of hyper-parameters on the final result.

While experimentation with values may help, the only guaranteed way to get good results is by having an in-depth knowledge of the topic. And the only way that is happening is by knowing the the subject which is the building block of every scientific stream ever: Mathematics. Many people have an ingrained fear of mathematics due to a variety of reasons, most are related to the method with which it has been ingrained in you. Math isn’t just solving questions; it is much more than that. It is a tool to solve problems of any kind. When it comes to Machine Learning and Deep Learning, it is not incorrect to assume that everything contained in it is maths in disguise.

Thus you’ll need to know a multitude of math concepts to get a grip on Machine Learning and Deep Learning. Linear Algebra is a very important topic. It’s a starting point for any kind of future work, along with Statistics. As you go deeper into the rabbit hole, you’ll need to know the basics of Multivariable Calculus, Probability and Counting. Now this may look a little overwhelming, but they are not. In fact most of these are covered in your previous classes. While starting your journey in this stream it’s important to get an understanding of the concepts and see how they relate to with what you’re learning. Concrete mathematical understanding can follow when you’re more comfortable with your concepts.

Coming back to online resources, it sure is tempting to just read a blog post and ‘repurpose’ their code and call it a day, But in doing so have you really learnt the topic? The answer to this question depends on what expectations you set for yourself. If you’re content with just skirting along doing the bare minimum, then that’s alright. Just keep in mind the pitfalls of knowing something superficially. But the satisfaction of knowing something in detail is unmatched and the benefits are useful in a variety of ways. As with nearly all things in life, the choice is yours to make.
