---
index: 9
section: technical
title: A Quantum Connection
class: SE IT
author: Dhananjay Shettigar
endpoint: /a-quantum-connection
---

Last year, I wrote a sort of an Intro to Quantum Computing, tried explaining, in layman’s terms, a few entry level topics such as superposition and quantum entanglement with a few analogies here and there. Well between now and then, a lot of progress has been made in this very difficult to understand field of computing. A lot is an understatement really. The people and companies at the forefront of quantum computing have made a ridiculous amount of progress in the short span of a few years. Revolutions don’t happen overnight but realizing the breakneck speed at which quantum computing is moving ahead, one would think twice about that statement. And the interest is rightly present. In classical computing, there is a sort of an observational law put forth by the co-founder of Intel, who many consider the pioneer of modern semiconductor applications (me included). It states, “The number of transistors on a microchip doubles about every two years, though the cost of computers is halved”. Now this is a law pertaining to classical computers and it has held up for 40+ years. But experts think that it may be time, that Moore’s Law may not hold up in the near future. The reason for this is the scale at which we are manufacturing the core blocks of a classical computer; transistors. Transistors basically reduce or amplify the flow of electrons across a bipolar junction essentially acting as a switch with two different voltage levels corresponding to high or binary ‘1’ and low or binary ‘0’. So today, the industry standard in personal computers is a 14nm manufacturing process and even 7nm for the ARM processors in your modern smartphones. Now the 14nm or 7nm process is just a commercial term but to put in simple terms, the smaller the number, the smaller your transistors and the gap between them. This leads to a process that allows billions (yes, with an ‘s’) of transistors to fit into an inch-wide processor chip in your phone. Now that is very impressive, but to adhere to Moore’s law is to keep shrinking your process. Here’s where the problem comes in. Now to put in perspective, the HIV Virus is about 140nm in size and when your chips are so much smaller, it becomes very difficult to work with any equipment because at this size, we start entering the quantum realm. And anyone working with quantum physics would probably use one word to describe the quantum realm; weird. There are so many unexplained phenomena in the quantum realm, the theories published about them have the word “uncertainty” in them. Jokes aside, the quantum realm may be weird but the brilliant minds of our time have seen these phenomena for what they can be. And what they can be is a godsend to the technological progress of humanity at a time when Moore’s Law was just about to be broken.

Finally, we come to the quantum part of this article. Now the important thing setting apart a quantum computer from a classical computer is the fact that a classical computer depends on bits to store information. Voltage levels used to provide a binary communication method. With quantum computing, there still is a binary system in place, but unlike classical computing where a single bit can either be a ‘0’ or a ‘1’; a qubit or a quantum bit exists in both those states simultaneously. Now how did that happen? Superposition! Currently there are 2 kinds of superposition used to create the qubit for a quantum computer. Using electrons, the computer measures the spin state (spin down: 0, spin up: 1) while with photons, they measure polarization (horizontal polarization: 0, vertical polarization: 1).

Quantum systems are said to be in superposition since until a quantum system is measured, the current state of a system cannot be known. And the real kicker with these systems is that when you measure a quantum system, you get that measured data for that particular instance of the system but you tamper with any other data you could hope to obtain (shout out to Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle). This is because to measure any system, you need to interact with it in a certain way. With macroscopic objects, there are so many data points that interacting with a few doesn’t really affect the system as a whole but with quantum systems, measuring is essentially destroying. Well then how do you really use the power of a quantum computer if barely touching it destroys everything about it. Well scientists figured, if we are going to tamper in any case, maybe we could minimize the effect that the tampering does. This is why quantum computers are really cold. The D-Wave Quantum Computer is essentially the coldest place in the universe. Yeah, the whole entire universe. Heat is basically energy and any presence of energy is a source of entropy and entropy just creates chaos. So, quantum computers use really cold environments to cool down the system to the point that the only possible disturbance is the measurement itself. No vibrations, no heat, no light, no energy other than lasers trying to measure the state. Well that’s all well and good but a computer’s got to compute right. That’s where the difference between a classical and a quantum computer becomes more apparent.

With a classical computer, you feed it an input, and if your logic should be correct, you expect an output. Well with quantum computers, it’s not that simple. Since a qubit is in a superposition of 0 and 1, the input you feed to a quantum computer goes through every single possible output, not just the one you want. So, a quantum computer doesn’t just spin its magic qubits providing a trivial answer. A quantum logic gate unlike a classical logic gate keeps performing operations on its input qubits and generates a lot of outputs, a seemingly random table of outputs. But when the quantum gates are arranged in a certain order forming a kind of digital circuit used to manipulate bits, the outputs start favoring a particular answer. Basically, when quantum gates are correctly arranged, we can find order out of this random mix of answers and the output with the highest probability is usually the output that a user is looking for. The process hasn’t been brought down to an exact science but the progress is incredible. To measure this progress, the people in quantum computing use the Shor’s algorithm which is used for integer factorization. The reason this algorithm is used is because the current encryption standards use prime factors of a really large number for encryption (RSA standard uses 2048-bit keys which is about 617 decimal digits). While a classical computing would need millions of years to process this number using Shor’s algorithm, for a quantum computer, it could just be a matter of days. Well, quantum computers aren’t quite at this stage yet with the current world record being 56,153. But only last year, this number was a measly 21. So, we are not far off. While this is great from a computation perspective, this is basically devastating to any and all privacy since encryptions will no longer be a viable security method. Not to worry but quantum computers bring forth the answer to that as well.

This brings me to the final part of this article, the quantum connection - A new interconnected network using only quantum endpoints, the perfect harmony of quantum and classical computing. While our personal computers and smartphones don’t see a quantum upgrade anytime soon in their future, our security methods very well could. It goes without saying quantum computing is extremely expensive for the time being, but maybe we could morph Moore’s Law to fit quantum computing soon. Anyways, this hasn’t stopped a Netherlands group of quantum computer scientists from creating the world’s first quantum internet. A quote by the lead from the team: “Quantum Internet will provide virtually unbreakable privacy and a foundation of secure communication, guaranteed by the fundamental laws of physics.” They do this harnessing the quantum phenomenon of entanglement (which is completely unexplained by classical physics but we know exists) over several small quantum computers. And they have used it at an unprecedented scale of over a kilometer (about 1.3km). Qubits, smaller than molecules, measured in scale of nanometers, maintaining an entangled state, over a kilometer apart from each other. It really is the stuff science fiction is made of. They have used a process which entangles a lot of these extremely tiny particles and using them as a single entangled pair providing an error corrected entangled system where even if a few of those particles lose their entangled state, the system as a whole will provide correct data. This seemingly invisible communication medium setup between 2 Dutch cities today is going to be the basis on which the quantum internet is going to be built. And we have only hardly scratched the surface on this realm of quantum computing. Well I’m done here for now but I highly recommend you check out the IBM Quantum Experience for a peek at the future of quantum computing and a deeper understanding beyond the scope of this article. Thanks for reading!
