---
index: 1
section: lockdown
title: Swing of Passion
class: TE IT
author: Nachiket Nisal
endpoint: /swing-of-passion
---

All of us are passionate about something which drives us to put in that extra effort in creating something we love and nurture .The only question I asked myself was - What is my passion?

On the first day of the year 2020 i realised the answer had been there all along - 'Cricket'. I was always driven by the game and always expressed my perspective About cricket with absolute compassion and zeal. I wanted to create a platform where I could share my views and ideas about cricket to a much wider audience and that is how on the first day of the year I began my journey of 'CricBlogs'. This journey started with blogs that I updated on a weekly basis addressing topics like - Importance of Test Cricket, Uprising of Women's cricket and History of Indian cricket.This created an impact on the readers and as my followers grew I even got more comments and acquired a need to expand the platform to convey this message to more fans and to celebrate this game in its full bloom.

Lockdown has had a huge impact on each and everyone one of us and hence I utilised this time to expand CricBlogs into a Instagram Page.Here I was able to invest more time to interact with the audience and have a more one to one interaction with them by creating various entertaining campaigns like - Trivia Quizzes, Opinion polls and Facts.I also upload various crickets facts that aren’t known to the masses.
The response has been great and also very fulfilling for me as not only am I following my passion and sharing my love for cricket but also interacting with so many new people and making everyone understand the real essence of Cricket.

Just as scary it is to begin something new it is more difficult to maintain and watch it grow. Organically as I kept receiving more engagement from my followers it was a challenging to come up with new content and it put me into a situation to learn new things about the nuances like SEO hacks,utilisation of proper hashtags, posting at a particular time of the day and aesthetics of my feed.
Most of the hacks worked wonders and the page raised above 200 followers in a month and got engagement from various celebrities like - Kuldeep Yadav, Gaurav Kapoor and Jatin Sapru.

This year has been full of challenges, as we all know, but I follow and find my passion after all these years, which wouldn't have been possible in the normal schedule. I want to be grateful to all the people who have been always supportive since day one. I think I am lucky enough to have such people around me. I really hope even in future I can put in as much as time as I can from my schedule into this page and watch it grow more and more.
