---
index: 10
section: lockdown
title: The Compromise that helped me catalyse
class: SE Prod
author: Antinni Joseph
endpoint: /the-compromise-that-helped-me-catalyse
---

The announcement of the lockdown, took me by surprise. My first thought was holidays, free from the daily chores and drudgery of routine. At first, I thought It was all leisure, fun and games perhaps. That was when boredom set in, and I had to think of some activity to do during this time.

The first week, I lazed around, doing nothing productive, doodling at best, pen and paper in hand. One day, I happened to be watching international news about Russia. That, for some reason, inspired me to learn the Cyrillic script. So, the second week, I would learn the Russian language script every day. Within a week, I was able to decipher some of the script, which earlier would have meant nothing.

A week passed before I thought to do something more useful. That’s when I happened to see a YouTube video featuring a ‘polyglot’ on the streets of Amsterdam, who was able to converse with most of the people in their native language. From Dutch and German to Mandarin and amazingly, even the African language of Swahili. I thought that interesting and something that I would like to do. I took up French, a language that I had already studied for 5 years during my school days. I created for myself, a schedule, a timetable you could say, which would set aside time for my French courses, some “time pass” in the form of movies and games with friends, and evening “workout” in the form of jogging.

Prior to the lockdown, cycling was the only form of “workout” that I would do more or less daily. However, because of the restrictions imposed as a consequence of the lockdown, I was forced to switch to another “workout” routine, given that cycling on the streets was prohibited. So, I chose jogging, and would do it regularly, every evening, in my colony. Every new evening, my target would be a longer distance to run as compared to the previous day. Moreover, having downloaded an app ‘strava’, I was able to analyse my performance and compare it with my previous ones. That changed on the 3rd of June, when restrictions on outdoor exercise activities were lifted. Finally, I was back on my bike, and it was cycling thereafter instead of jogging. I always believed that cycling gave an individual lot more freedom. The new lockdown gave me everyday time till 7pm and cycling allowed me to do greater distances within that restricted time. Further proof of that is the fact that I could see hundreds of cycles on the streets: old, rusted and perhaps half broken, but that didn’t stop people from cycling and enjoying some form of freedom during this period.

Post dinner, the day would end with a family prayer. It had been a long time since my family was able to do the same regularly as before, barely was the family together during the weekdays.
To sum up, this lockdown came at the compromise of many things, yet however, gave me the leisure time and helped ‘catalyse’ many things I had wanted to do before.
