---
index: 11
section: lockdown
title: A bibliophile’s serendipity
class: TE Prod
author: Dhwani Rajgaur
endpoint: /a-bibliophiles-serendipity
---

Books have always been an immensely important part of my life. Be it fiction or classic literature or any genre at that. I was so fascinated by the stories that people had to tell. Just imagining that a person living 7 seas away could share their story, their feelings to a stranger, a person who is already deceased can still meet you through their words; was something that brought about a lot of excitement and eagerness in me.

So, when I got to know that there would be no exams and I'd have ample of time to myself due to Covid-19, I decided to give more time to reading books and exploring more genres. It felt so good to open the books that I still had to read. Reading an old novel that I would've never thought I'll have the chance to read again was pretty nostalgic.

Within days I finished reading more novels than I thought I could read and a lot of short stories that kept me captivated. And I've never felt happier. Getting to know Matilda again, exploring intelligence with Nancy drew, going back to the chocolate factory with Charlie and Willy Wonka, experiencing friendship with Amir and Hassan, going into the wild with Christopher, going on an adventure with the famous five and finally entering into the magical world of Hogwarts were some of the adventures that I went through. Of course Sherlock Holmes was a different thrill altogether.

This lockdown made me realise that even if we can't go out and explore new places, we could always turn to books and have the thrill of it all. It actually took me on an adventure to my childhood and how simple yet pleasant things were back then.

Lastly, I'd like to share a small snippet of my favourite book 'Into the wild':

"And I also know how important it is in life not necessarily to be strong but to feel strong. To measure yourself at least once. To find yourself at least once in the most ancient of human conditions. Facing the blind death stone alone, with nothing to help you but your hands and your own head."
