---
index: 2
section: lockdown
title: FE-D Forever
class: FE D
author: Dhariya Gandhi
endpoint: /fe-d-forever
---

‘Engineering college’, something I had been curious about since the time I decided to pursue engineering. I had heard a lot of things about how wonderful and memorable my college days were going to be. My dad always told me that you are going to have the best time of your life.

It was the first day of college. I was preparing myself for a new journey, a completely different world. A string of mixed emotions was running through my head as I entered the class. 51 new faces. All unknown to each other. I noticed all of them were going through a similar set of emotions.

Slowly, the conversations began. Everything formal at first. "How much did you score on your CET? How difficult was JEE?" These were the sort of conversations we had in the beginning. Then, we started discussing engineering concepts, our subjects and that's how we grew more comfortable. Over the next few weeks, all of us had established a good rapport and become familiar with each other.

All of this was just in time. The first competition of our college was just around the corner. Athlos was the annual football tournament of our college. All divisions were to compete against each other. This was the first of the many competitions that would decide the fate of our division in terms of extra-curricular activities at the end of the year. we developed a good bond over the course of the tournament. We had started trusting and counting on each other.

Next in line was our college fest Euphoria. A line of events for all of us. Paparazzi, Venue Decor, Street Play and a lot of other exciting things. We managed to pull nearly everyone from our class. Despite all the effort and excitement, all we could manage to achieve was a consolation and runners up in the events we participated in. We had lesser number of points in the bag and were fourth in line for the trophy. Not the kind of position we had been looking forward to.

But as they say,"Tumhara result decide nahi karta ki tum loser ho ya nahi, tumhari koshish decide karti hai".

The dance competition was coming up. We knew that a win in the dance competition would see us through, and started preparing for it. Surprisingly, our CR, the laziest guy from class who never even attended the first lecture, but the most hardworking amongst all stepped up to the occasion. All of us practiced with single minded dedication towards achieving our goal. Bunking lectures, convincing teachers, staying back in college late into the night, those were the kind of memories we cherished during the process. We bonded extremely well with each other.

Competition Day. All the performances were done. We had put in our best. It was time for the results. We were all anxious, fingers crossed. The amount of hardwork and determination we had put in had all come down to this moment. And we won. For a minute, we stood there in disbelief, until we realized it wasn't a dream. All of us jumped in elation. Our hardwork had paid off. We had won the FE trophy. It was time for celebration, and all of us partied like a bunch of frenzies.

All this made me realize, that at the end of the day, no matter what the result, what I will forever remember is the time I spent with my classmates, enjoying the little moments. This is just the beginning. I'm looking forward to the best years of my life with these guys.

KUDOS TO FE-D. THE BEST FAMILY I COULD HAVE ASKED FOR. CHEERS!!
