---
index: 7
section: lockdown
title: Lockdown Diary:Time Full of Memories
class: TE Elex
author: Khushi Parikh
endpoint: /lockdown-diary-time-full-of-memories
---

2020 is such a year in which we have seen many disastrous things together, be it cyclones, locust attacks or the worst of all, ‘the pandemic outbreak of corona’. For preventing the spread of this virus, lockdown of few days was declared, which got converted into few months. The decision was taken to prevent people from going out and thus causing the virus multiplication to stop to a certain extent.

This lockdown worked as a catalyst to let me think about myself. It allowed me to incorporate new and variety of things for my self-happiness, and self-progress. I got to spend some quality time with my family due to the lockdown which acted as a catalyst, to have heart-to-heart chat with my father regarding how his life used to be before, the hardships one has to face to be an integral part of the organization, with my mother, I understood how much a homemaker does for making our homes perfect. I could play board games with them like chess, carrom, monopoly and we even use to play cards sometimes- it was blissful. I got to learn new things happening in their lives which used to be difficult to talk about, during regular days due to time constrain. There used to be a time when I felt cooking certain dishes which we usually eat outside won’t taste good when made at home but that is a clear myth, which was broken when I made those amazing dishes in my own kitchen with my mother’s help. Every alternate day I could make some or the other dish. One of my favourites was paneer chilly – the aroma of spices made me feel blessed that I could actually make such a wonderful dish. My mother would supervise me from outside the kitchen and the whole kitchen was given to me to work alone for my favourite dish. Not only proper meals but also sweet dishes and desserts became a part of my kitchen. Me, along with my mother would make such dishes for me to learn something new. Baking was the best part. I still remember when I had baked my favourite chocolate cake which was a mixture of chocolates, dry fruits and nuts-the most delightful experience. The lockdown taught us the importance of family and family-time. It also made us understand the importance of technology-digitalization. Video calls made us connect to people even in this lockdown, be it video calling with my friends to online working from work from home employees to payment of bills to online courses. Due to technology, I was able to attend various online webinars which were held in association with Institute InnovationCouncil. For example, the leadership talk with respect to digital library which is an interesting and innovative concept which can be benefitted by many students and also online courses like marketing analytics which can help me understand how market will stand after this pandemic for my future and career, which also helped me to strengthen my resume. This technology also gave me full entertainment as well, like watching movies, Binge watching the shows like ‘The Family Man’ and ‘Special Ops’ with my family was also one of the amazing parts of family-time. I also got a chance to complete my favourite (eBooks) classics like ‘Tess of the D’ Urbervilles’, ‘Hamlet’, ‘Merchant of Venice’ which used to be difficult to do so in regular days.

I know it is really frustrating to not go out, have our normal life again but it is necessary to stay safe and healthy. If we make good use of this catalyst called lockdown and be positive, we can do wonders for ourselves.
