---
index: 8
section: lockdown
title: An Unpredictable Lockdown Period
class: SE Prod
author: Amit Dubey
endpoint: /an-unpredictable-lockdown-period
---

My lockdown period started in Mumbai very much similar to what the “lockdown” really meant. I was locked in my house and with very little space with pretty much nothing to do unless I force myself to start a new routine. And so called “Unlock” started with unimaginable moments and things lined up which I never imagined would take place and eventually ending up putting me in a place where I’m right now that truly makes me feel I’m unlocked from a long period of confinement.

So, I was extremely proud of our country’s immediate action against spread of Corona virus by imposing lockdown from such an early stage but honestly never thought it could lead to such long wait and such a state we’re at the moment even after whatever’s being done. Anyways, I’d a thought to use my free time to develop my skillset and knowledge about all the things I am curious about and hence, I started watching web series and movies I always wanted to watch. It was April when I eventually got exhausted and then wanted to do something different. So, I started doing courses and watching educational videos. I was really enjoying it, it didn’t bore me at all.

It was June 4th around 10 am my dad got a phone call when I was studying using my laptop, then dad said that my bade mama is no more. It was a saddening moment he was a famous music director in northern regional cinema but due to some family issues my mom was not on talking terms with him since a long time. I don’t even remember when I last saw him in real. So, after his cremation we decided to go to Varanasi my native place for his last rites. Due to restriction on travels and considering time we decided to travel by family bus. It was my first journey to Uttar Pradesh by road. It took us about 52 hours to reach our destination, the journey was filled with sorrow, everyone getting emotional every now and then and memories of him along with beautiful landscape. After 13 days of all the hindu rituals we did to make his soul rest in peace, me and my mother we left for my father’s place. So, my sisters and dad were still in Mumbai and we had our ticket booked for 20th June. Then came another shock, our neighbour was tested positive for Covid-19 and she succumbed after 2 days of medication. We cancelled our tickets, dad and sisters after following all protocols and procedure took a flight and came to our native place. It was actually their first ever plane journey. After all what happened with us, we’re happy that we’re still together and at a safer place with our very own people. Due to inconsistent electricity and network I’m unable to stay busy with my studies, so I help at my farm and take care of our cows. This makes me believe “life is so unpredictable”.
