---
index: 1
section: english
title: Four Pillars of Human Life (The Catalysts)
class: Associate Professor Department of Science and Humanities
author: Prof. Sundary Prabavathy
endpoint: /four-pillars-of-human-life-the-catalysts
---

LIFE is a fusion of happiness and sadness, success and failure, comfort and pain, opportunities and frustrations, love and hatred, relief and sorrow. Yes, life is not perfect, but it is beautiful. To be happy and satisfied, to reveal our potential and to accomplish what we want to, there must be a process of change we go through. That change is either effected simply by ourselves or by some people who push us in a direction that forces us to change. Life is all about a card game. Choosing the right cards is not in our hands. But playing well with the selected cards in hand decides our success.

I dedicate this article to the four significant people in my life who have been the catalysts in transforming my life.

Sitting on my bed, rolling my eyes and shaking my head, I asked myself, “What have I learnt from these people?”. Only tears rolled down my eyes. I could not find words to express the powerful bond they have created with me. The reason for whatever I am today is mainly because of their selfless and unconditional sacrifice that they have done physically and emotionally. At the outset, let me thank God for sending them into my life at the right time when it was needed.

The first and the most crucial catalyst in our life is our parents. I would like to classify the different roles they play at various stages of our life as mentioned below:

From the moment they enter the stage of husband and wife, their journey of sacrifice begins. Even before we come to this world, they start striving to make our life better than their life.

1. Me Time: Once a couple transforms into a father and mother, their whole life is centred around their little bundle of joy. The ‘Me Time’ is out of their schedule. Everything that was before “US” becomes “OUR KIDs”. Relaxing after a busy schedule at work becomes just IMPOSSIBLE for them.
2. Material support: They are ready to spend any amount to fulfill the child. Providing the best education and getting them the best opportunity to settle down happily in life, take away a significant toll on their financial planning.
3. Freedom: They curb all the freedom of their choices for the sake of the child. Social life always takes a back seat in life. As the child grows, parents change their role as a catalyst and forever spread the fragrance of love and joy.

Next in the order is Guru (Teachers). They serve as the ladder to success in every students' life. In the current world, teachers play the role of a catalyst by supporting and motivating the students and also in accomplishing their responsibilities. Catalytic role of a teacher influences the students' participation in the classroom and increases her/his motivation level as a lifelong learner. In this light, teachers have an awesome responsibility of planting the seeds of hope, success, happiness, faith, self-confidence and enthusiasm; watering and fertilizing these seeds ; protecting them from insects (ego, jealousy, negative attitude and hatred and finally harvesting the crop in such a stage when they become beneficial to the society. This is the power of the teacher catalyst for converting positive thinking and attitude into positive action.

Next is, I, myself am the catalyst.

It is high time that we understand our life first with the help of the above catalysts. Live our life based on the lessons we have learnt from them and then make others understand their life by bringing in necessary changes. Remember: You are your inspiration, motivation and solution to your problems.

It does not matter how many people are present in your life. The only thing that matters is how many need your presence in their life. Never be upset and get caught up with things or people that cannot be changed. Instead, Move On. Let go and focus on what you can change, the things that enhance your life. One of the greatest pleasures of life is doing the things that others say you cannot do. A bird sitting on a tree is never afraid of the branch breaking because her trust is on her wings. Always believe in yourself and try to be a catalyst for yourself and also try to catalyze others.

There is no better exercise for our heart than reaching down and helping to lift someone. But the execution is essential. An average plan with excellent execution will always supersede an ordinary execution with a great plan. Quality life does not mean having wealth, power or superintelligence. It is a matter of how much kindness, love, concern you show on others and the joy you get out of it. Every little smile can touch somebody’s heart. No one is born happy, but all of us are born with the ability to create happiness. For it is in Giving that we receive.

A person in pursuit of excellence raises the standards of everyone around him/her. It also brings out the greatness in others. Try to be that person. Great leaders do not succeed because they are great, but because they bring out the greatness in others. No candle loses its light while lighting another candle. So never stop sharing and helping others because it makes our life more meaningful.

GOD, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can and the wisdom to know the difference.

Say Make a Nice Day instead of saying Have a Nice Day. Make today so awesome that yesterday gets jealous. Inhale your Blessings and exhale Gratitude. Carry a heart that never hates. Carry a smile that never fades. Carry a touch that never hurts.
