---
index: 12
section: english
title: A Dangerous Coincidence
class: SE Elex
author: Nikhil Sharma
endpoint: /a-dangerous-coincidence
---

Allen was a 45-yr old, middle aged man, who lived the typical life of a corporate manager, one of those white-collar jobs, where much of the work was boring and repetitive. He was at times disappointed but never complained, how could he... this was the life he chose, the life of a nameless faceless cog in the machine. The Idea of confinement within an office cubicle was perhaps never appealing to him, but it was his old man’s dying wish. If only he had pursued his lifelong dream of becoming a film-maker, and joined a film School, his life would have been much more exciting.

Allen never married and had no family; he lived in a 1-BHK apartment in Santacruz, an accommodation provided by the company he worked for. Apart from the fact that he was ambidextrous, nothing was mildly fascinating about him.

Despite having worked at the same place for nearly a decade. He didn’t have many friends. Mishra Ji, an elderly colleague, who sat in the cubicle which was right next to Allen’s, had retired a month ago. Mishra Ji along with Allen’s neighbour Ravi, were the only two people, whom he could call friends.

Allen was usually the first person to arrive at his office in the morning, and the last person to leave in the evening. One such evening, as he was returning from work, just outside the local railway station, he saw a new lottery booth, and decided to try his luck, “now a little excitement in life wouldn’t kill me...”, he thought to himself. He bought a ticket, and was on his way back home.

It was very quiet that night. A stiff wind blew in from the west making the heat slightly less oppressive than on other days. The next morning, Allen found an envelope at his door, the contents of which made his sleepy eyes go wide. He had won. The prize was a fully paid 5-day stay at a 3 star hotel located at Panchgani.

He decided to leave on Friday, which happened to be a public holiday, that way; he would only be required to take a leave for 2 days. It seemed like a good plan. The only issue, however, was that the prize included accommodation for 2 individuals. Naturally, Allen asked Ravi to accompany him, but he declined as he had to visit his brother-in-law during that weekend. Fair enough, it had to be old Allen and his leather briefcase, all alone on this journey.

As he stepped out of the train at Panchgani Station, he sighed with relief, the place had an inviting tone to it, a pleasant earthy smell was floating in the air. He only had 1 leather briefcase, so he didn’t need a coolie. He hired a taxi and went straight to the Regal Hotel.

The Hotel was a decent little place, situated at just 700 metres from the Parsi Point, overlooking the Krishna Valley. The servant allotted to him was also of amiable sort. Allen ate dinner, and dozed off to sleep immediately.

The 1st morning, Allen told his servant to make him a cup of tea when he returns after his day-long adventure, and so he began his day, walking for a few kilometres in the west direction, he was soon in open grounds near a lake. He spent the afternoon there, read some thrilling detective novels and tried filming the cranes in the lake. When he returned that evening, a cup of hot tea was waiting for him. It was a day well spent.

The next day, he decided to visit the renowned Parsi Point. Just like it was mentioned in the map, a walk of 700 meters took him to the famous point. It was off-season; hence there was no one there apart from him. He carried out his routine activities, sitting on a bench. In the evening, in hopes of filming the sunset, he took out his camera. He was perhaps too busy in getting the perfect shot of the dying sun, he didn’t notice that a person had come and stood behind him.

He realised and quickly turned back to find a middle aged man, with a face which seemed very familiar, standing behind him. Just when he began to think where he had seen this face before, he realised, he had seen that face every day for the last 30 years – in the mirror. The resemblance was uncanny, the curly hair, neatly trimmed moustache, the glasses...only the man was a shade darker than him. It almost sent a chill down his spine.

The man smiled and nodded in greeting. Allen returned the greeting. The man spoke, “My name is Valen”.
“Allen-Valen, even the names are similar” Allen thought to himself.

“I saw you yesterday at the lake, you were pretty much on your own like me...” said Valen.

“You were there too?” asked Allen in surprise. “yes.”, replied Valen.

Valen further added, “I came here on Friday... actually, I won a 5-day holiday to this place in a lottery... you see... I don’t have many friends hence I couldn’t bring anyone here with me and there aren’t many people around here as well, I saw you and thought I could use your fine company”.

Allen couldn’t believe his ears, he just kept on listening. The more the man spoke, the more similarities between him and Allen were highlighted. In the next half an hour, Allen learnt that Valen was also from Mumbai, he too, was a manager in a corporate company, was unmarried and was born in the same year as Allen, just a couple of months apart. Of course, Allen only listened and didn’t let Valen know about these similarities.

“I need to go now... I am staying at Grant Hotel... where are you staying?”

“The Regal Hotel” replied Allen.

“Alright, have a great night Sir. I hope to see you tomorrow, same place, same time, we could enjoy the sunset together.” said Valen.

Allen nodded in agreement.

That night, Allen refused his tea, didn’t eat dinner and stayed up all night, thinking about this strange coincidence. Could this have been some kind of joke? Was it possible for someone to follow him all the way from Mumbai to this hill station and pull a prank at him? It seemed highly unlikely.

The next morning Allen found Valen waiting for him, outside his hotel. “Good morning...The food at my hotel isn’t very good and I have heard that a restaurant nearby serves a delicious meal for Breakfast, do you care to join me?” Allen thought it was rude to say no, so he went along.

While having breakfast, he could notice how everyone, including the restaurant staff were just staring at them, probably marveling at their resemblance. After the meal, their conversation continued...
“I saw you making films with your camera yesterday... I liked Film-making as a student too, but my father wasn’t quite pleased with It.”, said Valen.

That was it. Allen had grown to hate Valen more and more, all the similarities and the fact that there was practically another “him”, existing in this world made him mad. Allen was now avoiding the conversation and trying to get rid of him, without much success though.

The duo walked up to the Parsi Point in the evening and Valen asked if he could use Allen’s camera to film the sunset, Allen gave him his camera. It was the time for sunset, Valen, while filming, advanced towards the edge of the mountain...while Allen was watching from behind; for once Valen had stopped making his life miserable, that’s when he understood that he was better off without any friends- alone. Something trapped inside him had unleashed in the form of an idea, the idea was the end of this misery, the end of Valen.

There wasn’t anyone around either, if he was to push Valen off the mountain, he wouldn’t have to bear him anymore and could live without the displeasure of the existence of another “him”.

He looked around, gathered all his strength and gave him a push. Valen’s body went flying off the mountain, into the valley deep down. Allen went running back to his hotel.

In the hotel, the manager saw him and said, “Mr. Valen, is that you?” as he came closer to Allen, he said “sorry, I mistook you for Mr. Valen, a guest, staying at this hotel...”.

It was then when Allen realised that he had accidently entered the Grant Hotel, the one in which Valen was staying. He said, “Don’t mind me, I’ve made a stupid mistake, I am staying at The Regal Hotel, both the hotels look very similar...I’ll be on my way now.”

Alen returned to his hotel. After completing dinner Allen went back to his room. He had just killed a man, but he didn’t feel bad at all...worse, he had liked it. He read some of his other detective novels and wondered if he had committed the- perfect murder.

It was late at night, around 2 a.m. when he began analysing the whole incident. “The Camera! oh lord!”, he had left the camera at the crime scene. He knew he had to get the camera back this night itself, while still, not many, know of Valen’s fate. He left the hotel without making any sudden noises. He ran as fast as he could and got to the Parsi Point, and there it was, the Camera!

He went forward, lifted the camera, and sighed with relief...

Just then, out of blue, a pair of hands appeared from behind and gave him a savage push...
