---
index: 16
section: english
title: Lessons from The Himalayas
class: TE IT
author: Rozebud Gonsalves
endpoint: /lessons-from-the-himalayas
---

It’s been a year since I took a trip to Ladakh for a trek, a very cold and demanding expedition. I remember getting out of the aircraft and letting out a small scream as the -17° wind pricked my body through the four layers of thermals and jackets like needles. It was partly a welcome, partly a warning that this was not going to be easy. Right from the first moment, I longed to get back home in Mumbai where the temperature didn’t go below 20° C. The trek began three days later and the temperatures kept dropping each day. We were staying at the guest house and our trek leader did not provide us with heaters because in three days we would be walking in a place without electricity and cellphone reception. We slept in tents and on ice cold rocks. One night the temperatures dropped to -27°C. We had walked for more than 10 hours that day and were exhausted, but couldn’t sleep because of the severe cold.

Sure, it was difficult but now, a year later, when I look back, I regret not being at that moment, not enjoying the cold, or the Maggie and chai we had sitting on ice. Each day there, I was counting down the days to be back, and I realised this was my everyday situation. I was so eager about the future that I forgot to live in the moment. It was a very sad reality that hit me.

I learned a lot during that trek. I learned that nature can be very cruel, but also forgiving at the same time. I saw the effects of climate change happen when we could see the ice melt in front of our eyes, but the biggest lesson came to me after months when I kept going back to that time and felt something was amiss but couldn’t figure out what. I realised that I kept going back because when I was there, I wasn’t actually present at that moment; my mind was in Bombay, in comfortable weather. The trek ended months ago, but the learning continued. I learned to live in the moment.If you’re busy, enjoy it because there will be days when you’re in your room the whole day and question what you’re doing with your life. Enjoy your time in college. Sure, you hate it, but you’re going to miss it really bad after you’ve left and when you understand that you didn’t make the most of it. If you’re going to a college abroad, be excited, but do not forget to make each day count, because in the end, these bitter-sweet memories will never cease to bring a smile on your face when nothing else can. These bitter-sweet memories will catalyze your way to happiness!
