---
index: 19
section: english
title: The Trip
class: BE IT
author: Anish Dias
endpoint: /the-trip
---

“Everything is created twice, first in the mind, then in reality”.
A trip is a mind boggling concept which makes us experience spectacular things. In the beginning of a trip our mind is overjoyed and all excited that our trip is going to commence. Everyone is super thrilled for the trip and gets their mind all prepped for everything coming their way. Even before we reach our destination and while we’re towards our destination the trip goes in waves.
After this first stage of pre-trip mind thoughts, we slowly move into our second phase of this journey which is the “Trip”, where we’re high and we start experiencing everything we thought and imagined in our pre-trip mind process. We all love this phase because that’s why we started the trip, we sink in the trip enjoying and taking in everything that’s here to be offered, whether it is a joyous trip, adventurous trip, mood adjusting trip, slow trip, relaxation trip or god forbid a bad trip which I hope no one experiences.
Now we move onto our last phase of our journey where we realize that we are coming back to our normal journey of life. Sometimes people don’t like their normal life and they find ways to escape in order to always be on a trip. We as humans need to find the perfect balance to be able to responsibly enjoy our trip as well as the journey of life. We carry memories, lessons, moments and all kinds of experiences. Everyone is out there on their journey of life and it's a tough round of life out here for everyone. So spread love, positivity and peace, be kind, loving and be tripping!
