---
index: 2
section: english
title: A Letter to the Lost
class: TE Prod
author: Dhwani Rajgaur
endpoint: /a-letter-to-the-lost
---

Dear brother,

The day I realized I needed you the most was, on a quiet night at 12:15 am while I was walking in the lonely streets. The aura of the night was as terrifying as the darkness of your pitch black eyes. There was no one with me. Although I was warned by mum and dad of the dangers lurking in the night, and advising me to be home early, I was late. You know how rebellious I can be.

There were four or five guys getting drunk and wandering along the streets and all I could think about was all the horrendous acts they could do to me, and in that moment I froze. The night lights were getting dimmer and as I started walking along in the direction of our home, I could hear the footsteps echo throughout the neighbourhood, and as I started running I could hear the terrifying drunkards chase me.

I arrived near our building and took the most deep and calming breath, without realising the consequences of what I had done. Dad was there standing near the gate with a veil of disappointment over his face.That's when I thought of you, my dear brother. I wished you could be here to help me at this moment. I wish you'd somehow get my message and you'd come here running to my rescue, to save me from dad's anger and mom's disappointment, to make me realize that there is someone who's always there to support me. That was the exact moment when I craved your presence. I wished I had someone who I could talk to all night and not have a single care about what my parents said.

Alas! You left too soon. You left me before I could have the chance to see you, before I was even born. You left me with nothing but an image of how, we would always fight each other over the silliest matters, protect me from the terrors of the world, be strict in front of my boyfriend, keep me happy despite being the most annoying person in the world, and always bring me my favourite gifts.
My dear, sweet brother, I wish you stayed after you were born. Mum says that you had pitch black eyes and a shiny little nose. In the last 20 years, all I wished was for you to somehow come back, but I know you would have told me to keep my head held high and battle with all the hurdles I come across. So here I am doing all the things that you would do. Here I am pushing myself to achieve all my goals and making something out of myself. Although I wish you were here motivating me, nevertheless, I will help myself. Our parents have raised me to face all the challenges and I'm so glad that they did.

You would have turned 21 today. So here I am, wishing you a very happy birthday my angel. I love you and so do mum and dad. I miss you a lot.

Your little sister.
