---
index: 24
section: english
title: Origin-Story
class: FE C
author: Sachi Verma
endpoint: /origin-story
---

Bitten by a radioactive spider? Parents’ shot dead in a lone alley? Injected with super soldier serum? Crash landed on Earth because your planet was destroyed? Forced to create weapons after being kidnapped? Well, I’m pretty sure you know every one of these people without me having to take their names. People who achieve greatness, whom we all idolize, almost, always have an origin story that compelled them to follow a certain path and make themselves memorable. We all deserve origin stories but we can’t wait for the universe or destiny to send something extraordinary our way. Paving our way to creating our own origin story is like another tale in itself. Go chase that object that you’re passionate about even if it’s something that’s in a completely different ballpark than where your aspirations lie; you might just find your true calling. Keep collecting things that mean something to you even if it’s irrelevant to everyone else; you’ll have multiple eventful incidents that will give you tons of perspective. Pursue that interest you ardently follow and it might just become your life’s purpose. Your story is a catalyst for your aim and mission in life. It will accelerate your self-belief and purpose and can also influence and pave a path for others. Let it be an epiphany of passion, perseverance and heroism. Every superhero deserves an origin story, so, what’s yours?
