---
index: 25
section: english
title: Status Update
class: FE C
author: Sachi Verma
endpoint: /status-update
---

From ‘woke up like this’ to ‘outfit of the day’; ‘single’ to ‘in a relationship’ to ‘it’s complicated’; ‘wanderlust’ to ‘foodie’. Everything we do in life has to be recorded on social media. Our status updates are like a new gen personal diary that needs to be updated every day to satisfy your daily dose of validation. Take a moment and look around you, by keeping your socials updated have you forgotten to amend our actual lives? Our life deserves a status update and there’s no excuse to delay it. Yes, you may be known as a ‘drama queen’ or ’meme lord’ online, but what you’ve also got to make sure is that you develop a personality that you can exhibit to the real world. The social media world, although powerful, is a very small world with a limited array of functions, whereas, the real world is huge and it’s filled with obstacles which can only be overcome if you equip yourselves well enough to know what you’re going to face and how you’re going to face it. I do concur that the online world creates a comfortable bubble for us, a safe space, and it’s not a bad thing to have something to fall back on, but the only way to break out of your shell and grow is to get out of your comfort zone and acquire skills to help you fight your battles and conquer your demons. So let’s not focus only on ‘status updates’, but rather shift our attention towards life updates, growth updates and progress updates as well. Let’s accelerate our lives to grow and glow, inside and out in all aspects.
