---
index: 8
section: english
title: Smoke,Fog and Haze
class: FE C
author: Sachi Verma
endpoint: /smoke-fog-and-haze
---

“Smoke never rises without fire.” The adrenaline rush, the pull towards acting out, being rebellious, an average college student’s life would be empty without all of this. There’s a fire burning and it’s waiting for an outlet. But what happens when you let out a fire that’s uncontrollable and raging, and which you clearly don’t completely understand the purpose of? Well, it lays waste to everything coming in contact with it, but that’s not even the crux of it. The real tragedy begins when the fire dies down and the smoke begins to appear. It is bad enough that things are in a mess, but now you’ve got to deal with the aftermath as well. The smoke blinds you and you can’t think straight. You can see things falling apart, but no matter how hard you try there’s nothing you can do about it because your thoughts are hazy and the path towards restoration is all fogged up. You try and make efforts but they don’t seem to work and the progress seems dead. When you feel like the walls are crumbling around you and can’t seem to find a way out, that’s when you need a ray of hope, something that will restore the ruins that will eliminate the smoke and clear out the haze. It can be anything – a person, an inanimate object or even a song. This will be your support system that will pull you out of your hole, and your catalyst that will accelerate the process of getting yourself back on track. Life isn’t all rainbows and butterflies, so find your safe place and keep it close because it’s the only thing that is going to clear out the smoke, fog and haze and bring you back home.
