---
index: 6
section: english
title: Colours
class: SE Elex
author: Gautami Thakur
endpoint: /colours
---

When I learnt that colours are a creation of the brain because light is mere photon waves, my world collapsed a little.

Not only could I see colours, I could feel them. I could feel them like a radio that never left the sides of my ears, like lyrics rolling off the tongue. I could feel them in the warm touch of elbows, knees, fingers; in the brush of cheeks against palms and hair against shoulders. I could feel them lingering under my teeth, the aftertaste of orange, or sky blue on my fingertips after they danced on rusted metal strings. I could invite them into my head like a stray dog following me home and paint my memories - gold, crimson, pale blue. I could spot them in wide, strained smiles, in between clamorous laughter that echoes to fill the room, within the black night sky that is so empty, that it absorbs every colour, every wavelength.

Maybe that is why I have always been drawn to voids, because I never saw them as holes. I saw them as every shade to ever exist, co-existing in one. Maybe that is why I found myself looking for them, in my home, in the eyes of my lovers, and in the way they chose to love me.

Every morning, I look in the mirror and see every shade to ever exist, co-existing in one.
I look and I look away into the red behind my eyelids and paint it yellow.

What a miracle it is to see with my eyes both, open and closed! What a curse it is to prefer the latter!
