---
index: 8
section: english
title: Here’s to You
class: FE C
author: Sachi Verma
endpoint: /Heres-to-you
---

Here’s to the ones who made it and to those who were brave enough to at least try. Here’s to the rebels who wanted to be left free but don’t know what to do when the responsibility of freedom is thrust upon them. Here’s to the quiet ones who dare to get out of their comfort zones and to the outspoken ones who like to succumb to the solace of silence once in a while. Here’s to the ones who are armed to break stereotypes and the ones who find comfort in knowing that there are at least some criteria that proves they fit into society’s standards. Here’s to the confident fashionistas and the baggy-clothes lovers. Here’s to the ones jamming to rock and pop and to the ones having their moments with old school Hindi, or better, vibing to all genres. Here’s to the ones partying all night and the ones enjoying the only time of silence they get during the night. Here’s to the studious ones with their head deep into books and the ones who rush to them a day prior to exams for help. Here’s to the ardent class bunkers and the consistent lecture attendees. Here’s to the innumerable groups formed for projects and praying you get someone who is ready to work out the entire project on their own. Here’s to the unfortunate first few roll numbers who are pushed first for everything. Here’s to late night conversations and being each other’s early morning alarm. Here’s to the numerous breakfasts, lunches and the special Maggi dates. Here’s to everyone we’ve come across and those who might cross our paths, to the people we’ve influenced and the people who have touched our lives. Here’s to those of you who have planned your entire future to the T and those who live life a day at a time, or in today’s lingo, carpe diem. Here’s to the ones who dare to chase their dreams and to those who fall back to attain peace and solitude within themselves first. Here’s to all of you set out to grow for yourselves and set an inspiration for others. So raise your glasses and hold your head up high, because here’s to all of you.
