---
index: 9
section: english
title: Two Unshakeable Pillars of Indian Cricket
class: TE IT
author: Nachiket Nissal
endpoint: /two-unshakeable-pillars-of-indian-cricket
---

Let me ask you a very simple question, which is the most successful cricketing team of all time? Within a fraction of seconds, most of the people will answer 'Australia', especially the Australian team in the 2000s. A team that had players like Hayden, Gilchrist, Langer, Steve Waugh, Ponting, McGrath, Warne, Brett Lee, and the list continues…..But there was one more team who was equally dangerous and talented but didn't have any big titles and champions in front of their name. Today we are going to talk about that team, Team India under the captaincy of Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid.

In the year 2000, after the match-fixing scandals in Indian cricket, Sachin Tendulkar gave up his captaincy and Sourav Ganguly was given the command of the Indian team. Sourav Ganguly (Dada) was a fearless and aggressive captain who always believed that the Indian team has the potential to win matches outside India and dominate world cricket. He focused on building a culture of promoting youngsters and playing aggressive cricket. Dada's best quality was his attitude towards the youngsters of the team, he always believed that, 'If you want to develop players, then you have to put them under pressure and keep supporting them irrespective of their performance in one or two games'. This work culture developed by Dada worked wonders for Indian cricket; youngsters like Virender Sehwag, Harbhajan Singh, Zaheer Khan, Yuvraj Singh, Mohammad Kaif and M S Dhoni became match winners and won matches single-handedly for India.

The world was witnessing the transition of the Indian team; the team went from defeat- to drawing a match- to winning it. The test match at Kolkata in the year 2001 proved the potential of the Indian team. Young Harbhajan Singh left the Kangaroos in awe and took the test match away from them, Border-Gavaskar cup in 2001 was a statement for the rest of the world that the Indian team is going to create a global impact. In the year 2002, India was playing a 7-match ODI series against England, the series was leveled 3-3 and India snatched the victory from the hosts which sealed the series for India, kudos to the brilliant performance from Yuvraj Singh and Mhd. Kaif. These performances were not only the result of talent but also of the support and belief of the Indian Captain. India was outperforming every team in ODI and Tests. This team was creating wonders and was on a dream campaign in the 2003 World Cup. India performed brilliantly in the 2003 World Cup and became the runner-up. This was the second time after 1983 when India reached the finals of a World Cup. In 2003, India won a tough test match chasing almost 525 runs in the first innings and 230 runs in the second. Rahul Dravid with 233 off 446 balls and VVS Laxman with 148 runs proved that Indian Batsmen can play at any pitch against any bowling line-up. India kept winning matches in Australia, England, South Africa, and New Zealand. But a series victory away from home was remaining.

Sourav Ganguly was injured for the test series against the arch-rivals Pakistan, handing over the captaincy to Rahul Dravid. Rahul Dravid was a very silent, peaceful, and humble person. He carried the same attributes in his captaincy and always played with responsibility. In the 2004 series against Pakistan, Indian players were at the peak of their form. Virender Sehwag scored a brilliant triple century at Multan and Sachin Tendulkar scored 194 runs. Pakistan failed to deliver a match-winning performance and India won the first test match in the series. Pakistan fought back in the following match, taking the series up another level. Captain Rahul Dravid took the responsibility of victory on his shoulder and scored his career-best 270 runs, to ensure victory for India. India won the series 2-1 and this was India's first series win outside India since 1993. Rahul Dravid was not a full-time captain for the Indian team, but he ensured that throughout his captaincy, the team will never face any difficulty and disappointment.

Rahul Dravid and Sourav Ganguly are the catalysts of Indian cricket. Today the success and respect we enjoy is the result of their selfless efforts and hard work. They always did the right thing for the team and accepted any duty that came their way, and catalyzed India’s process to become World Champions. Despite being a batsman, Rahul Dravid played as a wicketkeeper-batsman for many because the team didn't have any better options. Such selfless contributions go unnoticed which draws the curtain on the greatness of the player. Sourav Ganguly fought against the dirty political practices of the former coach Greg Chappell, and took a stand for his team and his fellow teammates. The success we enjoy today was not handed on a platter, these two gentlemen paid huge costs for it.

For anyone who is leading a team, Sourav Ganguly is a perfect example of aggressive leadership. What we can learn from him is, Always support your team and give them confidence in their abilities, learn to put faith in them, and try to build more leaders around you. Learn humility, responsibility, selfless attitude from Rahul Dravid's captaincy. The world of cricket teaches us a lot, but only we have a learning attitude towards it.
